## SMB 
`Nmap` has many scripts for enumerating SMB, such as [smb-os-discovery.nse](https://nmap.org/nsedoc/scripts/smb-os-discovery.html), which will interact with the SMB service to extract the reported operating system version

```shell-session
nmap --script smb-os-discovery.nse -p445 10.10.10.40
```

## Shares
SMB allows users and administrators to share folders and make them accessible remotely by other users. Often these shares have files in them that contain sensitive information such as passwords. A tool that can enumerate and interact with SMB shares is [smbclient](https://www.samba.org/samba/docs/current/man-html/smbclient.1.html). The `-L` flag specifies that we want to retrieve a list of available shares on the remote host, while `-N` suppresses the password prompt

```shell-session
smbclient -N -L \\\\10.129.42.253
```

 Attempt to connect as the guest user.
 
```shell-session
 smbclient \\\\10.129.42.253\\users
```

Using credentials for the user bob (`bob:Welcome1`).

```shell-session
smbclient -U bob \\\\10.129.42.253\\users
```

## SNMP
SNMP Community strings provide information and statistics about a router or device, helping us gain access to it. The manufacturer default community strings of `public` and `private` are often unchanged. In SNMP versions 1 and 2c, access is controlled using a plaintext community string, and if we know the name, we can gain access to it. Encryption and authentication were only added in SNMP version 3. Much information can be gained from SNMP. Examination of process parameters might reveal credentials passed on the command line, which might be possible to reuse for other externally accessible services given the prevalence of password reuse in enterprise environments. Routing information, services bound to additional interfaces, and the version of installed software can also be revealed.

```shell-session
shakir0x00@htb[/htb]$ snmpwalk -v 2c -c public 10.129.42.253 1.3.6.1.2.1.1.5.0

iso.3.6.1.2.1.1.5.0 = STRING: "gs-svcscan"
```

```shell-session
shakir0x00@htb[/htb]$ snmpwalk -v 2c -c private  10.129.42.253 

Timeout: No Response from 10.129.42.253
```
A tool such as [onesixtyone](https://github.com/trailofbits/onesixtyone) can be used to brute force the community string names using a dictionary file of common community strings such as the `dict.txt` file included in the GitHub repo for the tool.

```shell-session
shakir0x00@htb[/htb]$ onesixtyone -c dict.txt 10.129.42.254

Scanning 1 hosts, 51 communities
10.129.42.254 [public] Linux gs-svcscan 5.4.0-66-generic #74-Ubuntu SMP Wed Jan 27 22:54:38 UTC 2021 x86_64
```
